Continuous Profiler and Analysis Tools
======================================

Installation
------------

Platforms:
 - FreeBSD 12+

```
$ make
```


Ghidra
------

Our analysis pass depends on Ghidra.
Running the following script:

```
$ ./scripts/install-ghidra.sh
```

will install a copy of it under `./ghidra`.
On FreeBSD, this installation will require Linux emulation for some binaries, which you can set up with:

```
# pkg install linux_base-c7
# service linux start
```

To use an alternative Ghidra installation, set the `GHIDRA_ROOT` environment variable to its path.
By default, Ghidra project data will be saved to `./ghidra/projects`.
This path can be customized with the `GHIDRA_PROJECTS` environment variable.


Getting Started
---------------

Our bcpid collection daemon can should be run as root and records will be 
placed in `/var/tmp`.  The daemon can also be run in foreground mode for 
testing as with `-f` parameter and you change the output directory using the 
`-o` parameter.

The default counters are picked up `conf/ARCH_NAME.conf` where architecture 
name is displayed in the first line of `pmccontrol -l`.  The configuration file 
accepts pmc formatted comma separated parameters to the counters.  We also 
include several additional parameters `sample_rate`, `sample_ratio` and 
`label`.

Sampling can be done at a fixed rate or adaptive rate.  For fixed counters 
specify the `sample_rate`.  For adaptive counters specify the `sample_ratio` 
and set the target CPU overhead using `-a %CPU` parameter to bcpid.  The daemon 
will change the sample rate to meet the target CPU usage.

You should set the label using the standard pmc counter names with a few 
extensions we've made.  Currently we use `instructions`, `branches`, 
`dc-misses`, and `l2dc-misses`.

```
$ bcpid/bcpid
```

Extract cache miss samples from the bcpi data in `/var/tmp` and stores them in 
`address_info.csv`.

`BINARY` is the path to the executable object to analyze

```
$ bcpiquery/bcpiquery extract -o BINARY
```

At the moment Ghidra requires that you provide a binary with DWARF symbols 
included.  If needed you can merge the symbols and binary using the following 
command:

```
$ ./scripts/merge-debug.sh program program.debug program.full
```

This will run our cache miss analysis on the addresses generated in the 
previous step and generate a list of structures present in the samples.

WARNING: The first time you run this it may take a substantial amount of time.  
For the FreeBSD kernel with DWARF symbols we usually require 30 minutes for the 
Ghidra to finish the analysis.  Subsequent runs should be on the order of 
seconds.

`Analyze.sh` takes 2 arguments:
`PATH_TO_CSV` -> where to find `address_info.csv` generated by `bcpiquery`
`PATH_TO_BIN` -> where to find the binary

```
$ ./scripts/analyze.sh ./address_info.csv program.full
```

You can also generate a report for a given structure:

```
$ ./scripts/analyze.sh ./address_info.csv program.full structname
```


Kernel analysis
---------------

Different scripts must be used to import the FreeBSD kernel for analysis.
First, merge the debug info into the kernel and modules with

```
$ ./scripts/merge-kernel.sh /boot/kernel ./kernel.full
```

Or, if you have the obj directory from the kernel build, you can do

```
$ ./scripts/merge-built-kernel.sh /usr/obj/.../sys/GENERIC ./kernel.full
```

Then, import the kernel with

```
$ ./scripts/import-kernel.sh ./kernel.full
```

If the kernel to analyze was running on a different machine, you'll need to capture the output of `kldstat` on that machine and pass it to the import script:

```
$ ./scripts/import-kernel.sh ./kernel.full kldstat.out
```

Analysis works as normal:

```
$ ./scripts/analyze.sh ./address_info.csv ./kernel.full
```
